README.md, before:

## Resource : Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3xDAU5cvi5E&list=PLxAp0ELKVyrnjVDfF3tWhhW7aAtgUsl9N&index=1

# Docker commands
Checking images on our pc 
```
docker image ls
```

### Creating a docker image
```
Docker build -t <imagename> .
```

### Deleting a docker image
```
docker image rm <image id>
```

### Check containiers on local machine
```
docker ps
```

### Creating and run a docker image in a container
```
docker run -d --name <containerName> <imagename>
```

### Running a docker image in a container with port forwarding
```
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name <containerName> <imageName>
```

anything send to our local machine at port 3000 will be sent to container's port 3000
localhost:3000 is like an outside host as well, it gets sent to port 3000 of container

React app example:
```
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 <imagename>
```

### Running a docker image with live updates (reflecting local changes)
Bind volume ( syncs local directory to directory in container)
```
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name <containerName> -v $(pwd)/src:/app/src <imagename>
```

- Bind volume also sync files from containiers
- any files added to container will be added to local
- For windows, live update command may require:
  ```
  docker run -e CHOKIDAR_USEPOLLING=true -d -p 3000:3000 --name <containerName> -v $(pwd)/src:/app/src <imagename>
  ```
  
### Removing a container
```
docker rm <containerName> -f
```

### Stopping a container
```
docker stop <containerName>
```

### Looking into files of our container (with bash commands)
NOTE: alpine ver of node wont support bash
```
docker exec -it <containerName> bash
```

Once the command is ran, you can use linux command here. Type "exit" to quit container.


### Creation of docker repo 

1. login
    docker login and enter credentials

2. docker tag <imagename>:<imagetag>  <username>/<reponame>

3. docker push <username>/<reponame>

### Sample Dockerfile

```
FROM node:alpine 
WORKDIR /app
COPY package*.json ./   # copy package.json to current directory in container
                        #optimization technique, only if package json is changed, npm install will run
                        #else, npm install won't run
RUN npm install
COPY . .
CMD ["npm", "start"]
```

### Workdir in detail
Example dockerfile

```
WORKDIR /app
COPY aws_tutorial/package*.json ./
RUN npm install --verbose
EXPOSE 3000
COPY aws_tutorial ./
```

1. Sets workdir as /app
2. By running docker exec -it <container-id> sh, and ls, you can see your container directory in /app
3. COPY aws_tutorial/package*.json ./ --> copy everything with the name package.json into /app
4. aws_tutorial ./ --> copy everything in aws_tutorial folder into /app

# Docker compose 
Docker Compose is a tool that allows you to define and manage multi-container Docker applications. It provides a simple way to define the services, networks, and volumes required for your application in a declarative YAML file.

### Guide for using docker-compose for projects with multiple services
Link : https://www.honeybadger.io/blog/docker-django-react/

### Building and running multiple containers from Dockerfile
```
docker-compose up
```
### Sample Docker Compose file

```
services:
  frontend:                        #Define services here
  build: ./aws_tutorial            #Specify dockerfile location
    ports:
     - "3000:3000"
    volumes:                       #Maps host volume to container volume
     - ./aws_tutorial:/frontend
  backend:
    build: ./Backend
    environment:
      - SECRET_VARAIABLE=SECERET_VALUE
    ports:
      - "8000:8000"
    volumes:
      - ./Backend:/backend

```

Specifics on volumes : Mapping of host and container volume allows changes to sync between files in host machine and container. EX : if new code is added onto host machine, new code files will be added into container as well. EX: If volume is specified as /frontend:/frontendContainer and frontendContainer is not set as WORKDIR in Dockerfile, a new directory named frontendContainer will be created in the container.

### Tips when building CICD pipeline via Jenkins
Hide console outputs from docker-compose up by doing 

```
docker-compose up -d
```

# Docker container with MySQL
### Sample Dokcerfile hosting mysql DB

```
# Use an official MySQL 8.0 image as the base image
FROM mysql:8.0

# Set environment variables for MySQL configuration
ENV MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=password


# Copy the SQL script to initialize the database
COPY ./init.sql /docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/

# Expose the MySQL port
EXPOSE 3306
```

### Sample Init.sql script for mysql
Used for creating a schema , filling in data for table
```
-- Create database
CREATE DATABASE mydatabase;

-- Use the database
USE mydatabase;

-- Create table
CREATE TABLE users (
  id INT AUTO_INCREMENT,
  name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  email VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (id)
);

-- Insert sample data
INSERT INTO users (name, email) VALUES
('John Doe', 'john@example.com'),
('Jane Smith', 'jane@example.com');

```

### Using MySQL Workbench to connect to containerized DB
After building and running the container created for mysql db, MySQL workbench can be used to connect to the containerized db via tcp/ssh method. In EC2, provide public IP as hostname and ubuntu as ssh username and provide .pem file for EC2 server authentication. Then fill in necessary mysql login credentials and test connection.

Commit message:

MySQL workbench with docker MYSQL

README.md, after:

## Resource : Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3xDAU5cvi5E&list=PLxAp0ELKVyrnjVDfF3tWhhW7aAtgUsl9N&index=1

# Docker commands
Checking images on our pc 
```
docker image ls
```

### Creating a docker image
```
Docker build -t <imagename> .
```

### Deleting a docker image
```
docker image rm <image id>
```

### Check containiers on local machine
```
docker ps
```

### Creating and run a docker image in a container
```
docker run -d --name <containerName> <imagename>
```

### Running a docker image in a container with port forwarding
```
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name <containerName> <imageName>
```

anything send to our local machine at port 3000 will be sent to container's port 3000
localhost:3000 is like an outside host as well, it gets sent to port 3000 of container

React app example:
```
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 <imagename>
```

### Running a docker image with live updates (reflecting local changes)
Bind volume ( syncs local directory to directory in container)
```
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name <containerName> -v $(pwd)/src:/app/src <imagename>
```

- Bind volume also sync files from containiers
- any files added to container will be added to local
- For windows, live update command may require:
  ```
  docker run -e CHOKIDAR_USEPOLLING=true -d -p 3000:3000 --name <containerName> -v $(pwd)/src:/app/src <imagename>
  ```
  
### Removing a container
```
docker rm <containerName> -f
```

### Stopping a container
```
docker stop <containerName>
```

### Looking into files of our container (with bash commands)
NOTE: alpine ver of node wont support bash
```
docker exec -it <containerName> bash
```

Once the command is ran, you can use linux command here. Type "exit" to quit container.


### Creation of docker repo 

1. login
    docker login and enter credentials

2. docker tag <imagename>:<imagetag>  <username>/<reponame>

3. docker push <username>/<reponame>

### Sample Dockerfile

```
FROM node:alpine 
WORKDIR /app
COPY package*.json ./   # copy package.json to current directory in container
                        #optimization technique, only if package json is changed, npm install will run
                        #else, npm install won't run
RUN npm install
COPY . .
CMD ["npm", "start"]
```

### Workdir in detail
Example dockerfile

```
WORKDIR /app
COPY aws_tutorial/package*.json ./
RUN npm install --verbose
EXPOSE 3000
COPY aws_tutorial ./
```

1. Sets workdir as /app
2. By running docker exec -it <container-id> sh, and ls, you can see your container directory in /app
3. COPY aws_tutorial/package*.json ./ --> copy everything with the name package.json into /app
4. aws_tutorial ./ --> copy everything in aws_tutorial folder into /app

# Docker compose 
Docker Compose is a tool that allows you to define and manage multi-container Docker applications. It provides a simple way to define the services, networks, and volumes required for your application in a declarative YAML file.

### Guide for using docker-compose for projects with multiple services
Link : https://www.honeybadger.io/blog/docker-django-react/

### Building and running multiple containers from Dockerfile
```
docker-compose up
```
### Sample Docker Compose file

```
services:
  frontend:                        #Define services here
  build: ./aws_tutorial            #Specify dockerfile location
    ports:
     - "3000:3000"
    volumes:                       #Maps host volume to container volume
     - ./aws_tutorial:/frontend
  backend:
    build: ./Backend
    environment:
      - SECRET_VARAIABLE=SECERET_VALUE
    ports:
      - "8000:8000"
    volumes:
      - ./Backend:/backend

```

Specifics on volumes : Mapping of host and container volume allows changes to sync between files in host machine and container. EX : if new code is added onto host machine, new code files will be added into container as well. EX: If volume is specified as /frontend:/frontendContainer and frontendContainer is not set as WORKDIR in Dockerfile, a new directory named frontendContainer will be created in the container.

### Tips when building CICD pipeline via Jenkins
Hide console outputs from docker-compose up by doing 

```
docker-compose up -d
```

# Docker container with MySQL
### Sample Dokcerfile hosting mysql DB

```
# Use an official MySQL 8.0 image as the base image
FROM mysql:8.0

# Set environment variables for MySQL configuration
ENV MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=password


# Copy the SQL script to initialize the database
COPY ./init.sql /docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/

# Expose the MySQL port
EXPOSE 3306
```

### Sample Init.sql script for mysql
Used for creating a schema , filling in data for table
```
-- Create database
CREATE DATABASE mydatabase;

-- Use the database
USE mydatabase;

-- Create table
CREATE TABLE users (
  id INT AUTO_INCREMENT,
  name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
  email VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (id)
);

-- Insert sample data
INSERT INTO users (name, email) VALUES
('John Doe', 'john@example.com'),
('Jane Smith', 'jane@example.com');

```

### Using MySQL Workbench to connect to containerized DB
1. Allow inbound port for EC2 for port 3306
2. Build dockerfile and run the container with port mapping 3306:3306
3. In MySQL Workbench, open up new connection with TCP/SSH method
4. Procide public IP as hostname and ubuntu as ssh username
5. Provide .pem file for EC2 server authentication
6. Fill out MySQL credentials and test connection
